# Lesson 1


## Introduction
<P>
Welcome to Micro : bit Smart Car! In the lesson, we will explore Micro : bit, and learn how to control the Micro : bit Smart Car through programming.
<P>

## Objective
<P>
Students will fully understand the theory, and the function of the Micro : bit of the AI lens in the Smart Car. Also, they will learn how to program the AI lens for achieving more functions of the Smart Car.
<P>

## Introduction of HuskyLens
<P>
Huskylens is an easy-to-use AI machine vision sensor with 7 built-in functions. Apart from the following 6 functions below, there is also an object classification function that learns the differences between different objects and automatically classifies them.
<P>

### Method
<P>
Huskylens mainly has two buttons, function button and learning button.
<P>

+ Dialing the function button to the left/right to switch functions/modes
+ Click on the function button to call out the function menu
+ After long pressing the function button, you can set whether to learn multiple targets.
+ Click the function button again to drag the scroll bar to the right to enable "Learn More".

<P>
After scrolling to the “save and return”, you can press the function button to call the confirmation window. Pressing the function button for saving.
<P>

+ Click the Learn button to learn a new object, and the object ID will be displayed on the screen.
+ Press and hold the learning button to learn to recognize new object from different angle, and distance.
+ After studying the new object, it is required to press the learning button again for further study within 4s.（Otherwise, stop studying after 4 seconds, you must first forget the target and then re-study）

+ After terminating the study, press learning button twice for forgetting the learned objects.


## Installing HuskyLens in Smart Car
<P>
Components：
<P>
<P>
1）Attach the small mounting bracket to the heightened bracket with two screws.
<P>
<P>
2）Attach the HuskyLens motherboard to the small mounting bracket with two screws.
<P>
<P>
3）Attach the AI lens to the hole in the rear of the Smart Car with two hexagonal posts (plastic), two screws, and Nuts.
<P>
<P>
4）Follow the figure in bottom to connect the HuskyLens to micro:bit extend board by using 4 color wires.
<P>
<P>
Completed picture：
<P>

## HuskyLens expansion pack
<P>
Select Extensions in Advanced Category. Then search “huskylens”, and add the DFRobot_HuskyLens expansion pack:
<P>
  
## HuskyLens building block module
<P>
Perform I2C initialization communication protocol, **Must be executed in the "on start" block
<P>
<P>
Switch to other functional mode（The car can only run one mode at a time）
<P>
<P>
Send a one-time request to HuskyLens, and save the data into the “result” (variables in memory), Make it readable by other HuskyLens blocks (each request refreshes the data in "results")
<P>
<P>
Get a total number of learned IDs from the result.
<P>
<P>
Logical condition: check if target ID is on screen from the result
<P>
<P>
(You can choose the target as a box or an arrow, arrows are generally only used for line tracing)  
<P>
<P>
Let's familiarize with the most basic building blocks of HuskyLens introduced above. 
<P>
  
## Exercise 1：
<P>
Design the program by using HuskyLens, Micro:bit board A button, B button to complete the task:
<P>

    1）When the program starts, it automatically switches to the object classification mode.
    2）Use HuskyLens to learn 5 kinds of objects (ID)
    3）Press the button A: display the number of learning objects - (a)
    4）Press the button B: clear learning object data
    5）Press the button A again to display the number of learning objects - (b)

<P>
Tip: Use HuskyLens >> More >> "Forgotten Blocks" to clear learning object data  
<P>

Location|Number
---|---
(a)|
(b)|

<P>
**Try to re-open HuskyLens after learning an object, and press the button A again to show number. See what numbers come up? What conclusions can be drawn from this? Can your program be improved?
<P>

## Exercise 2:
<P>
Design the program by using HuskyLens, Micro:bit board initial lights, and onboard LEDs to complete tasks.
<P>
<P>
First add the stemhub:bit expansion pack: <a href="https://github.com/stemhub/pxt-Stemhubbit">https://github.com/stemhub/pxt-Stemhubbit</a>
<P>
<P>
Mission：
<P>

    1）When the program starts, it automatically switches to the object classification mode.
    2）Use HuskyLens to learn multiple objects.
    3）If there is a learned object within the screen, the Micro:bit board displays the object ID closest to the center of the screen and lights all onboard LEDs green, otherwise lights up red.

<P>
If there is no learned object within the screen, what number will the Micro:bit board show?
<P>
<P>
Answer:
<P>

    <T><T>
<P>
**Tip: If it cannot return there is no learned object after learning a object.（For example: non-learned object is classified as ID 1），You can press the learning button twice to forget all learned data.
<P>
<P>
The building blocks for controlling the onboard LEDs are in the Stemhub:bit module
<P>
<P>
At last, you can switch different modes and try the steps (2-3) of the exercise 1. You will find that the number of learning objects obtained in each mode is calculated independently.
<P>

## Answer
### Exercise 1
Location	Number
(a)	 
(b)	 
  
<P>
Re-open HuskyLens after learning the object, press the button A and the number displayed will be 0, and then press it again to get the actual ID number.
<P>
<P>
HuskyLens does not read the actual learning data after each startup and receives the "Data Incoming Result" request for the first time, but first turns the result to 0 for the first time, after which the request will be actually read. Learning data. So the final program:  
<P>

### Exercise 2
<P>
Micro:bit boards will display -1 if no learning objects are on the screen
<P>


