# Lesson 9 and Lesson 10

## Introduction
<P>
Welcome to the Micro: bit Smart Car Tutorial！In this course, we will explore the Micro: bit and learn how to control the Micro: bit car in programming.
<P>

## Teaching Objectives
<P>
Let student master the cooperation and driving between Micro: bit Smart Car and controller and understand how the controller and car can communicate through radio waves.
<P>

## Controller
<P>
Introduction of Micro: bit controller:
<P>
<P>
This controller can only be able to use with Micro: bit. The controller has multiple functions, including a joystick, 4 programmable buttons, a buzzer, and a vibration motor.
<P>
<P>
1)	The joystick has a detection function of up, down, left, and right, and can also be pressed as another button.
<P>
<P>
2)	The 4 buttons with different colors are red X, green Y, blue A, and yellow B. They correspond to the p13, p14, p15, and p16 pin respectively.
<P>
<P>
3)	The buzzer and the vibration motor have a switch connection, they will be connected to p0 when the switch is on the left, and when the switch is on the right, each time we press the 4 programmable buttons will make the buzzer sound and vibrate.
<P>

## Radio and our daily life
<P>
Radio communication is a communication method that uses electromagnetic signals instead of wires, optical fibers, and other media to transmit information across space. Nowadays, wireless communications are commonly used in smart phones, Wi-Fi, and even satellites to transmit data via radio waves.
<P>
<P>
The principle of micro: bit radio communication is based on radio waves. The micro: bit has an antenna on the back for data transmission between two micro: bit boards
<P>

## Radio programming module
<P>
Download the controller expansion pack:
<P>
<P>
1)	Enter the following link into the yellow box  <a href="https://github.com/lzty634158/GHBit">https://github.com/lzty634158/GHBit</a>
<P>
<P>
2)	Add GHBit to makecode
<P>
<P>
If you want to use the controller to control the trolley, you need to install a Micro: bit on each of the controller and the trolley and load their respective programs.
<P>
<P>
The controller and the car use radio waves for communication, so two Micro: bit need to establish a radio connection.
<P>
<P>
setting up a wireless communication module: (in the radio category)
<P>
<P>
To set the radio group, enter a number (0~255) in the yellow box 
<P>
<P>
Set the strength of the radio (1-7) 
<P>
<P>
(In an open area and there are not many computers nearby, the broadcast area can reach up to 70m)
<P>
<P>
radio transmit string signal 
<P>
<P>
When string received, do{...}
<P>
<P>
(Upon receiving the string signal, the program in the building block will only start when the string signal is received)
<P>

### Example 1: Two-way radio
<P>
Display numbers sent by broadcast
<P>

## Program module for controller and the car
<P>
Block for controller:
<P>
<P>
Joystick blocks, select the joystick up, down, left, right and press actions in the yellow box.
<P>
<P>
The blocks for buttons, select the buttons B1~B4 in the yellow box, and select the action of pressing or releasing the button in the blue box
<P>
<P>
(Because radio waves have no directivity, different pair of cars and controller need to set up a separate set of radios to avoid interference)
<P>
<P>
Programming for controller:(GHBit)
<P>
<P>
(Joystick)   
<P>
<P>
The red box is for the joystick, and the yellow box is for the button 
<P>
<P>
Programming for the car:
<P>
<P>
The red box is for the joystick, the yellow box is for the button 
<P>

    B1: stop moving                            
    B2: Display a heart shape    
    B3: The car moves toward left      
    B4: The car move toward right                                 

## Exercise 1
Try adding a function to one of the buttons to make the LED lights on the expansion board lights up and emit different colors.
Hint 1: Change the program of the car, the controller program does not need to be changed
Hint 2: Use functions

## Exercise 2
Try changing the answer of exercise 1, cancel the function of the "B1" button, and let it automatically pause the car
Hint: use ‘... else’

## Answers
### Exercise 1
<P>
The program for the controller refers to above
<P>
<P>
Programming for the car：
<P>

### Exercise 2
<P>
Controller
<P>
<P>
Car
<P>
